[DOC] Rework tutorial 'First Steps with SeqAn'. (#3100)
seqan/seqan3: doc/tutorial/01_introduction/index.md

> \tutorial_head{Easy, 30 min, \ref setup, [Ranges](https://github.com/seqan/seqan3/wiki/Ranges)\,

Reviewer: The ranges entry is a bit old. There is https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/ranges, but it doesn't explain much.
Either we find a good reference, or we update the wiki a little bit. The wiki actually looks good, but we need to remove the mentions of range-v3 and cpp17+concepts as they are outdated.

Author: I deleted both references as a hello world tutorial should not require you to know about concepts nor ranges.

e.g. they depend on other code snippets given before/after the current one or
other statements implied by the text. You can **copy'n'paste** freely from these examples,
this implies no copyright-obligations (however distributing SeqAn or an application
using it does, see [Copyright](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/about_copyright.html) and
[Citing](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/about_citing.html)).

> You may ask, why we do not use std::cout or std::cerr for console output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may ask why we do not use std::cout or std::cerr for console output.
```

> Actually, for the given text it does not make a difference since seqan3::debug_stream prints to std::cerr as well.

Reviewer: 3 lines below:
`(that's where the name originates).` -> `(that's where the name originates from).`

\snippet introduction_debug_stream.cpp debug
\endsolution

The above is an assignment with solution. You will find assignments in the tutorials to practise the discussed contents.
We believe that programming them will help you to memorise better and that it makes the tutorials more interesting and
interactive. The solutions provide the intended use; but often there are multiple ways to solve an assignment,
so don't worry too much if your solution is different from ours.

# API documentation

While the tutorials provide you with a walkthrough of some of our modules, the
[API documentation](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/modules.html) will be the go-to reference when you start
developing code with SeqAn.

Some helpful tips when browsing our documentation:

* You can search for seqan3 entities with the **search bar** in the top-right corner.

>   E.g., start typing `debug_str..` and the pop-up will suggest the `debug_stream` for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  E.g., start typing `debug_str` and the pop-up will suggest the `debug_stream` for you.
```

* If you don't have a specific entity you are searching for, the **landing pages** of each module are always a good
  start. E.g., the [Alphabet landing page](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alphabet.html) first lists
  all submodules (Adaptation, Aminoacid, ...) and general alphabet-related seqan3 entities, followed by a detailed
  description of our alphabet module. Searching for keywords on this page might point you in the right direction.
* If you know you've seen some code snippet somewhere but don't remember where, have a look at our

>   [cookbook](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/cookbook.html). It is not structured and super huge, but works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [cookbook](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/cookbook.html). It is not structured and huge, but works
```

>   well if you do a key word search with `Strg + F`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  well if you do a key word search with `Ctrl+F`.
```

We recommend you to open the API documentation in separate browser tab s.t. you can easily switch back to the tutorial.

If you have troubles or the documentation is missing some information, feel free to write to the developers
of SeqAn on [Github](https://github.com/seqan/seqan3/issues/new/choose) and ask your questions directly.

# Modules in SeqAn

Modules structure the SeqAn library into logical units. There are, for instance,

* [`alphabet`](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alphabet.html): `seqan3::dna4` etc.
* [`io`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__io.html): read/write FASTA, SAM, ...
* [`alignment`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alignment.html): compute pairwise alignments etc.
* [`search`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__search.html): search via an FM-Index etc.

and some more.

Some modules consist of submodules and the module structure is represented by the file hierarchy in the `include/`
directory. Whenever you use functions of a module, make sure to `#include` the correct header file.

Each directory in the SeqAn sources contains an `all.hpp` file which includes all the functionality

> of the respective (sub-) module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the respective module.
```

For small examples and quick prototyping, you can just include these `all.hpp`-headers.
However, for larger projects, we recommend you include only the necessary headers, because this will reduce the
compile time measurably.

\assignment{Assignment 2: Modules and API documentation}
In your program of assignment 1, initialise a vector of `seqan3::dna4` instead of `int`.
The vector shall store the DNA string `ACTG`.

> Check the [API documentation](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/modules.html) for which header you need to include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the [API documentation](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/modules.html) for which header you need to include.
```

Additionally, browse the documentation for `seqan::dna4` on how to initialise a `seqan3::dna4` letter.
\endassignment
\solution
\snippet introduction_dna4.cpp debug
\endsolution

# Some general notes that might help to dive into SeqAn

## SeqAn and the STL

In contrast to the former version of SeqAn (2.x.x releases), we try to be very close to the standard and all other

> data structures and algorithms should work on stl data structures as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data structures and algorithms should work on STL data structures as well.
```

Analogous to the STL, SeqAn3 uses `snake_case` everywhere.

## Modern C++

> We use a lot of Modern C++ in SeqAn so some things might look alien at first,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use a lot of Modern C++ in SeqAn, so some things might look alien at first,
```

\snippet introduction_debug_stream.cpp debug
\endsolution

The above is an assignment with solution. You will find assignments in the tutorials to practise the discussed contents.
We believe that programming them will help you to memorise better and that it makes the tutorials more interesting and
interactive. The solutions provide the intended use; but often there are multiple ways to solve an assignment,
so don't worry too much if your solution is different from ours.

# API documentation

While the tutorials provide you with a walkthrough of some of our modules, the

> [API documentation](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-dev/modules.html) will be the go-to reference when you start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[API documentation](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/modules.html) will be the go-to reference when you start
```

developing code with SeqAn.

Some helpful tips when browsing our documentation:

> * You can search for seqan3 entities with the **search bar** in the top-right corner.
>   E.g. start typing `debug_str..` and the pop up will suggest the `debug_stream` for you.
> * If you don't have a specific entity you are searching for, the **landing pages** of each module are always a good
>   start. E.g. the [Alphabet landing page](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alphabet.html) first lists
>   all submodules (Adaptation, Aminoacid, ...) and general alphabet related seqan3 entities, followed by a detailed
>   description of our alphabet module. Searching for key words on this page might point you in the right direction.
> * If you know you've seen some code snippet somewhere but don't remember where, have a look at our
>   [cookbook](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/cookbook.html). It is not structured and super huge, but works
>   well if you do a key word search with `Strg + F`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can search for seqan3 entities with the **search bar** in the top-right corner.
  E.g., start typing `debug_str..` and the pop-up will suggest the `debug_stream` for you.
* If you don't have a specific entity you are searching for, the **landing pages** of each module are always a good
  start. E.g., the [Alphabet landing page](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alphabet.html) first lists
  all submodules (Adaptation, Aminoacid, ...) and general alphabet-related seqan3 entities, followed by a detailed
  description of our alphabet module. Searching for keywords on this page might point you in the right direction.
* If you know you've seen some code snippet somewhere but don't remember where, have a look at our
  [cookbook](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/cookbook.html). It is not structured and super huge, but works
  well if you do a key word search with `Strg + F`.
```

We recommend you to open the API documentation in separate browser tab s.t. you can easily switch back to the tutorial.

If you have troubles or the documentation is missing some information, feel free to write to the developers
of SeqAn on [Github](https://github.com/seqan/seqan3/issues/new/choose) and ask your questions directly.

# Modules in SeqAn

> Modules structure the SeqAn library into logical units, as there are for instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modules structure the SeqAn library into logical units. There are, for instance,
```

> * [`alphabet`)](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alphabet.html), provides e.g. `seqan3::dna4`
> * [`io`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__io.html), e.g. let's you read/write FASTA,SAM,...
> * [`alignment`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alignment.html), e.g. compute pairwise alignments
> * [`search`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__search.html), e.g. search via an FM Index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`alphabet`)](https://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alphabet.html): `seqan3::dna4` etc.
* [`io`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__io.html): read/write FASTA, SAM, ...
* [`alignment`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__alignment.html): compute pairwise alignments etc.
* [`search`](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/group__search.html): search via an FM-Index etc.
```

and some more.

Some modules consist of submodules and the module structure is represented by the file hierarchy in the `include/`
directory. Whenever you use functions of a module, make sure to `#include` the correct header file.

Each directory in the SeqAn sources contains an `all.hpp` file which includes all the functionality
of the respective (sub-) module.
For small examples and quick prototyping, you can just include these `all.hpp`-headers.
However, for larger projects, we recommend you include only the necessary headers, because this will reduce the
compile time measurably.

\assignment{Assignment 2: Modules and API documentation}

> In your program of assignment 1, initialise a vector of `seqan3::dna4` values instead instead of `int`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your program of assignment 1, initialise a vector of `seqan3::dna4` instead of `int`.
```

> The vector shoud store the dna string `ACTG`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vector shall store the DNA string `ACTG`.
```

> Check the [API documentation](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-dev/modules.html) for which header you need to include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the [API documentation](http://docs.seqan.de/seqan/3-master-user/modules.html) for which header you need to include
```

> (either the alphabet `all.hpp` or the specific header for `seqan3::dna4`).

Reviewer: Too much of a hint?

Author: hmm.. yes I guess.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Also browse the documentation for `seqan::dna4` about how to initialise a `seqan3::dna4` letter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, browse the documentation for `seqan::dna4` on how to initialise a `seqan3::dna4` letter.
```

\endassignment
\solution
\snippet introduction_dna4.cpp debug
\endsolution

> # Some general notes that might help to dive in to SeqAn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Some general notes that might help to dive into SeqAn
```

> ## SeqAn and the stl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## SeqAn and the STL
```

In contrast to the former version of SeqAn (2.x.x releases), we try to be very close to the standard and all other

> sata structures and algorithms should work on stl data structures as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
satan structures and algorithms should work on stl data structures as well.
```

:)

> Analog to the stl, SeqAn3 uses `snake_case` everywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analogous to the STL, SeqAn3 uses `snake_case` everywhere.
```

## Modern C++

\note
We use a lot of Modern C++ in SeqAn so some things might look alien at first,
e.g. type templates are used like ordinary types in many situations (no `<>`).
We also always use `{}` to initialise objects and not `()` which is only used for function calls.
In general, the style should be much easier for newcomers.

> ## Avoid `using namespace seqan3;`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Avoid using namespace seqan3
```

code blocks don't work in headers

We encourage you to avoid declaring `using namespace seqan3;`. This has the additional benefit of easily distinguishing
between library features and standard C++. The only exception are string literals, where we often use

> `using namespace seqan3::literals` for convenience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`using namespace seqan3::literals;` for convenience.
```

> All our tests also avoid `using namespace seqan3;` so we can't ensure the safety of doing so.

Reviewer: Not sure if helpful. Could also be read as "we are too lazy to test it, so don't use it" instead of "it is bad style, so don't do it".

Author: haha yes.. I'll remove it again. Or would you just rephrase?
